docs: improve prometheus plugin docs (#11874)
apache/apisix: docs/en/latest/plugins/prometheus.md

| Name | Description                                                                                         |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name       | Resource ID corresponding to the upstream configured with health checks, such as `/apisix/routes/1` and `/apisix/upstreams/1`. |
| ip         | IP address of the upstream node.                                                                         |
| port       | Port number of the node.                                                                            |

## Examples

The examples below demonstrate how you can work with the `prometheus` plugin for different scenarios.

### Get APISIX Metrics

The following example demonstrates how you can get metrics from APISIX.

The default Prometheus metrics endpoint and other Prometheus related configurations can be found in the [static configuration](#static-configurations). If you would like to customize these configuration, see [configuration files](/apisix/reference/configuration-files#configyaml-and-configyamlexample).

> 

Author: no related content

Reviewer: It's in `config.yaml`. You can mention it in a separate section - this is what other plugin docs here do.

| apisix_node_info                      | gauge     | Information of the APISIX node, such as host name.                                                                                                                                                         |
| apisix_shared_dict_capacity_bytes     | gauge     | The total capacity of an [NGINX shared dictionary](https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#ngxshareddict).                                                                                                                     |
| apisix_shared_dict_free_space_bytes   | gauge     | The remaining space in an [NGINX shared dictionary](https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#ngxshareddict).                                                                                                                   |
| apisix_upstream_status                | gauge     | Health check status of upstream nodes, available if health checks are configured on the upstream. A value of `1` represents healthy and `0` represents unhealthy.                                                                 |

> | apisix_stream_connection_total        | counter   | Total number of connections handled per stream Route.                                                                                                               |

Author: Fixed those in sentences

| matched_host | Host of the Route that matches the request. Default to an empty string if a request does not match any Route, or host is not configured on the Route.                             |
| service      | ID of the Service that the HTTP status originates from when `prefer_name` is `false` (default), and name of the Service when `prefer_name` to `true`. Default to the configured value of host on the Route if the matched Route does not belong to any Service. |
| service_id   | Available only in Enterprise. ID of the Service that the HTTP status originates from regardless of the `prefer_name` setting. |
| consumer     | Name of the Consumer associated with a request. Default to an empty string if no Consumer is associated with the request.                       |
| node         | IP address of the upstream node.                                                                                          |
| gateway_group_id | Available only in Enterprise. ID of the gateway group that the HTTP status originates from. |
| instance_id | Available only in Enterprise. ID of the gateway instance that the HTTP status originates from. |

> | api_product_id | Available only in Enterprise. Product ID that the HTTP status originates from. |

Reviewer: Remove all the labels that are `Available only in Enterprise.` There are 15 of them.

In other words, the APISIX latency is not only attributed to the Lua processing. It should be understood as follows:

```text
APISIX latency
  = downstream request time - upstream response time
  = downstream traffic latency + NGINX latency
```

### Labels for `apisix_upstream_status`

The following labels are used to differentiate `apisix_upstream_status` metrics.

| Name | Description                                                                                         |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name       | Resource ID corresponding to the upstream configured with health checks, such as `/apisix/routes/1` and `/apisix/upstreams/1`. |
| ip         | IP address of the upstream node.                                                                         |
| port       | Port number of the node.                                                                            |

## Examples

The examples below demonstrate how you can work with the `prometheus` Plugin for different scenarios.

### Get APISIX Metrics

The following example demonstrates how you can get metrics from APISIX.

> The default Prometheus metrics endpoint and other Prometheus related configurations can be found in the [static configuration](#static-configurations). If you would like to customize these configuration, see [configuration based on environments](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/profile/).

Reviewer: The `configuration based on environments` doc is irrelevant.

```suggestion
The default Prometheus metrics endpoint and other Prometheus related configurations can be found in the [static configuration](#static-configurations). If you would like to customize these configurations, update `config.yaml` and reload APISIX.
```

Create a Route with the `prometheus` Plugin:

```shell
curl "http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes" -X PUT \
  -H "X-API-KEY: ${admin_key}" \
  -d '{
    "id": "prometheus-route",
    "uri": "/get",
    "name": "extra-label",
    "plugins": {
      "prometheus": {}
    },
    "upstream": {
      "nodes": {
        "httpbin.org:80": 1
      }
    }
  }'
```

Send a request to the Route to verify:

```shell
curl -i "http://127.0.0.1:9080/get"
```

You should see an `HTTP/1.1 200 OK` response.

Send a request to the APISIX Prometheus metrics endpoint:

```shell
curl "http://127.0.0.1:9091/apisix/prometheus/metrics"
```

You should see an output similar to the following:

```text
# HELP apisix_http_status HTTP status codes per Service in APISIX
# TYPE apisix_http_status counter
apisix_http_status{code="200",route="1",matched_uri="/get",matched_host="",service="",consumer="",node="54.237.103.220",upstream_addr="54.237.103.220:80",route_name="extra-label"} 1
```

### Monitor TCP/UDP Traffic with Prometheus

The following example demonstrates how to collect TCP/UDP traffic metrics in APISIX.

> Include the following configurations in the [configuration based on environments](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/profile/) to enable stream proxy and `prometheus` Plugin for stream proxy. Reload APISIX for changes to take effect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include the following configurations in `config.yaml` to enable stream proxy and enable `prometheus` Plugin for stream proxy. Reload APISIX for changes to take effect:
```
